---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-28T00:32:58.752Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-28T00:32:58.358Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-28-6f1f0f05-eb80-410d-9290-66598eada466.md
published: true
url: 6f1f0f05-eb80-410d-9290-66598eada466/index.html
_type: Article

---
**Where Do LED's get Their Colored Light?**

As long as your automobile has lighting you're probably more than content. Haven't you ever wondered for a split second why your car has so much less character than the new vehicles with the slick looking LEDs? What is the new LED trend, and why are they becoming more popular by the day? COB, SMD, LED, it is all so confusing, but yet so colorful and beautiful.

The term LED refers to light emitting diode. In simple terms, it is a two lead semi-conductor light source. For those conversant with physics, it resembles a pn-junction diode and emits light when activated. It basically has two ends; each responsible for voltage transfer. Once a given voltage is applied to the two leads, electrons within the diode recombine with protons within the device, releasing energy in the form of photons. This effect is known as electroluminescence. Hold on I'm just about to explain that term too. It is the phenomenon in which a material emits light in response to the passage of an electric current.

There are given compounds that simply give off colorful light when the energy strikes them. These include;

* Powdered zinc sulfide doped with copper (producing a greenish light)
* Zinc sulfide doped with manganese (producing an orange-red color)
* Naturally blue diamond which includes boron as a dopant.
* Semi-conductors containing group 3 & 5 elements such as indium phosphide, gallium arsenide and gallium nitride.

As you may have noticed above, the word doping has been used repeatedly. It refers to adding a specific element to a semi-conductor in order to improve its conductivity. Here, the better the conductivity the brighter the color. The color entirely depends on the wavelength of the materials within the given diode.

Another aspect involved in the production of different colors of light is refraction. This concept is basically the bending of light. The relationship between refraction and light production is the materials used. There is a specific glass placed within the LED that aids in the outcome of the light observed by the consumer. Once white light is produced by the diode, it falls on the glass and is dispersed. It breaks into the different colors of visible light commonly referred to as the colors of the rainbow. The color experienced by the observer entirely depends on the refractive indices of both the glass and the desired color.

You would wonder why these bulbs are on high demand. They save on power, they represent a new kind of trendy fashion and give one a higher appeal in terms of social class. In addition to this, the brightness of these bulbs can be moderated. This gives the consumer the liberty to adjust them to his liking.

**_Did you know?_**

LED bulbs emit less heat than normal bulbs. Moreover, they operate better at lower temperatures making them best suited for supermarket freezer lighting.